# The Beginning of Human Civilization 

## The Dawn of Civilization

Around 10,000 years BC, there was a revolution: one that had transformed humanity from having a hunter-gatherer lifestyle to that of an agricultural lifestyle. This is known as the Neolithic or the First Agricultural Revolution. This led to the development of cereal crop cultivation (grass grown for its grain)--in the forms of wheat and barley-- and the domestication of animals--sheeps and goats--by 8500 BC in the Middle East. Similar developments had occured in the Indus River Valley, Eastern Asia, and the Americas. Metallurgy had developed in the 6000s BC, in the form of copper tools and decorations, and then gold for the latter. From this point, trade had developed, as some areas had an excess of precious metals, and other areas did not have enough. Bronze (an alloy of copper and tin) developed around 2500 BC, but would not be widespread until later.

The Agricultural Revolution had led to an excess of food production, thereby enabling more dense human populations to gather. And thus the first cities and states were formed. These cities became the centers for trade, production, and political power. From this point urban areas developed a symbiotic relationship with rural areas, as the rural areas provided agricultural goods in exchange for military protection and goods which were manufactured. One proto-city (a settlement without any planning or centralized rule) at this time was that of Jericho.

Alongside cities developed civilization, that is, complex societies that apart from cities also have division of socio-economic classes, government, and visual communication (typically in the form of writing symbols). Examples of early civilizations include Mesopotamia, Egypt, the Harappan civilization (around the Indus River) and early Chinese civilization.
